docs: add docs for the new ocsp-stapling plugin (#10900)
apache/apisix: docs/en/latest/plugins/ocsp-stapling.md

---
title: ocsp-stapling
keywords:
  - Apache APISIX
  - Plugin
  - ocsp-stapling
description: This document contains information about the Apache APISIX ocsp-stapling Plugin.
---

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

## Description

The `ocsp-stapling` Plugin dynamically sets the behavior of [OCSP stapling](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_ssl_module.html#ssl_stapling) in Nginx.

## Enable Plugin

> This Plugin is default disabled, modify the config file `./conf/config.yaml` to enable it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Plugin is disabled by default. Modify the configuration file `./conf/config.yaml` to enable the plugin:
```

> ```yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml title="./conf/config.yaml"
```

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9180/apisix/admin/plugins/reload -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT
```

## Attributes

The attributes of this plugin are stored in specific field `ocsp_stapling` within SSL Resource.

| Name           | Type                 | Required | Default       | Valid values | Description                                                                                   |
|----------------|----------------------|----------|---------------|--------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| enabled        | boolean              | False    | false         |              | Like the `ssl_stapling` directive, enables or disables OCSP stapling feature.                 |
| skip_verify    | boolean              | False    | false         |              | Like the `ssl_stapling_verify` directive, enables or disables verification of OCSP responses. |
| cache_ttl      | integer              | False    | 3600          | >= 60        | Specifies the expired time of OCSP response cache.                                            |

## Example usage

> You should creates a SSL Resource first, and the certificate of the server certificate issuer should be known. Normarly the fullchain certificate is work fine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should creates a SSL Resource first, and the certificate of the server certificate issuer should be known. Normally the fullchain certificate works fine.
```

> The SSL Resource Example like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an SSL Resource as such:
```

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9180/apisix/admin/ssls/1 \
-H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "cert" : "'"$(cat server.crt)"'",
    "key": "'"$(cat server.key)"'",
    "snis": ["test.com"],
    "ocsp_stapling": {
        "enabled": true
    }
}'
```

> Once you have configured the SSL Resource as shown above, you can make a request as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, establish a secure connection to the server, request the SSL/TLS session status, and display the output from the server:
```
